Date: Sat Jul 10 00:20:53 JST 2004

From: Jun Makino <makino@astron.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp>

Piet,

I *believe* I have not replied to this message before.

 > > > In general, we need a way to cross link between different volumes.
 > > > Did you get a chance to think about how to implement that in acsdoc?
 > > 
 > > Well, technically speaking it is easy. One problem is perhaps
 > > that you have been changing the volume number quite a bit.
 > 
 > Sumimasen.  However, this time I *think* we can stay with the
 > volume numbering of ACS 1.1.  I like the logic: One vision
 > volume, four start-up volumes, seven foundation volumes, and
 > then many research volumes.

Even so, I *think* we should have a way which makes the change of the
volume numbering possible. Once we have cross links with fixed file
names, changes simply become impossible.

 > Of course, we *could* decide to use indirect addressing:
 > for example, we could address the Plummer volume with a
 > logical name "Plummer" or "vol-acs11-5" to indicate that
 > during acs-1.1 it was called volume 5.  I would be happy
 > with either choice: hard-wired "vol-5" and indirect
 > addressing.  Do you have a preference?

Frankly I do not believe you'll be happy with hard-wired name. Some
form of indirect addressing is of absolute necessity. The only
solution is, I think, some form of indirect addressing, and the way to
do so is to add logical name to each volume somehow. The only question
is how.

 > > However, there are several practical
 > > implementation problems:
 > > 
 > > a) How to uniquely specify, for example, the section name. It is quite
 > >    possible that a same section or subsection name appears multiple
 > >    times in one volume.
 > > 
 > >    In latex the problem is solved by letting the user to specify a
 > >    unique label to anything to be referred. We can take that approach
 > 
 > I do not like so much the idea of a global name space for all volumes,
 > since later we may get 100 volumes.  On the other hand, perhaps this
 > is the best solution.  Of course, we could use a label such as:
 > "vol-acs11-5-binney-tremaine-appendix-chapter-section-bob-unhappy".
 > Surely such a label will never be used elsewhere in the book, or at
 > least it will be extremely unlikely.

I think there are two problems, which I'm not sure you are aware of or
not.

One is how to give name to the place to be referred to, and the other
is how to use that label.

For example, when you wrote:

 > "vol-acs11-5-binney-tremaine-appendix-chapter-section-bob-unhappy".

Do you mean one would write that to the place to be refered, or to the
place which refers, or both?

If you do not mind to add long labels to the places to be referred to,
that is certainly the simplest solution.

 > Another option would be to give a logical name (label) to each volume,
 > and to each chapter, and to each section.  But perhaps that would be
 > more work.  It would be a very Ruby-like approach though, using such
 > indirect addressing.  Again, I do not have a strong preference.
 > What do you think?

Here again, I'm not sure whether or not you see the difference of the
above two problem. *WHO* give a logical name? The human author (I
think that's unpractical)?  Or acsdoc.rb (if you can specify a unique
naming algorithm which does not depend on the file name and location,
that's easy)?

 > > c) How the link should appear in the text? I mean, what should we
 > >    specify for "X"  below? 
 > > 
 > >       <a href=....#Name-here-must-be-unique-over-entire-ACS-or-Kali>X</a>
 > >    
 > >    In latex, sections are numbered, so the solution was easy. In
 > >    acsdoc, sections are not numbered, nor the volumes (well, at least
 > >    not in a stable way). So it is not clear what to write at "X". We
 > >    could write:
 > > 
 > >       "Volume 1a, Chapter 01, Section  Setting the Stage"
 > >   
 > >   But I'm not sure if that is the best way or not.
 > 
 > See above, my example of very-long-label.

Sorry, I do not see the relation between long label and link text. In
my above example, "#Name-here-must-be-unique-over-entire-ACS-or-Kali"
is the long name, but my question is how "X" part should be specified.

 > > d) In PS or TeX version there is no way to cross referensing to other
 > >    books. So what should we do there? 
 > 
 > Perhaps this would be an argument for giving all books a logical
 > name, and also each chapter and each section.  We could then 
 > `compile', I mean Latex, all .ok files of acs in one big pass,
 > but that might be too huge a job.  However, I see no other way to
 > get all the references consistent.  This is a very difficult point.


Hmm, well, I can see a very nice solution, which probably you do not
like, but let me explain:

The easiest solution is to stop using the directory names like vol-1,
vol-2, but use the "logical" name as the name for the directory for
each volume. That is, to use "plummer" as the name of the directory,
and then add reasonably simple label to the places you want to refer.

I mean, if a volume should have a logical name, there is no reason not
to use it as the directory name. If you still want to have numbered
names for directories, you can make soft links or hard links.

How do you think?

I'll answer the second half in my next message.

Jun

